#100DaysOfCode

Day 1: I'm kicking off my #100DaysOfCode journey with style - CSS styling that is! 🕺 Getting started with some CSS styling for my first ever project, which will be coming in the next few days - no prizes for guessing what it is though 🍙
Day 2: exploring PostgreSQL databases through JS functions and RESTful APIs. Been a very long hard day, but I'm incredibly proud of the understanding I've got at the end of it. It's still not 100 percent there, but I've done well!
Day 3: lessons learnt about copying and pasting code I've written. I'm proud of making a working database with CRUD functionality in just 1 day with my #schoolofcode team. A lot of debugging required today, but got there in the end 🎉
Day 4: Time to showcase my #pokedex project! It returns some info about the desired poke from an API and manipulates The DOM to display it. There's still some stuff to do, but I feel happy to show it now.
Day 5: Code Wars today. Got a couple down, good work done.
Day 6: planning day 1 for my new project - an app where users can input wines and descriptions, which will store them on a restful database with CRUD functionality. Entity Relationship Diagrams established, along with the CRUD tables. Wet up MVP and decided which dependencies to utilise. Excited to get started properly!
Day 7: Testing testing 1,2,3! A day full of testing, starting at unit and ending at end to end. Today for the challenge I continued the work we started on the @theschoolofcode bootcamp, and ended up completing it all. A new concept on its way to being understood, and a good day all around!
Day 8: I forgot to post yesterday as I had quite a frustrating day and was ready to put the keyboard down by the end of it. A day full of testing and difficult concepts, but I kept working through it and have come out of the other side of the day knowing more than when I started - which is what it's all about!
Day 9: Good progress today with @schoolOfCode with testing, and the hackathon went well. Outside of that in my #100DaysOfCode challenge, I have started coding my new project - very exciting! Today was setting the server and database up - still a little bit more to do with this, but getting there!
Day 10: Awaited some async fun with the way that functions are imported and exported through JS. Lots of lessons leaned about file paths, scripts, node modules, dotenv and more! I'm excited to continue with my wine app! Cheers!
Day 11: Great day at @SchoolOfCode re-creating the BBC sport homepage in our first two day hackathon, still a long way to go, but getting there! Afterwards some more work on my wine project, this time setting up helper functions for one of my tables. I feel like I have got a lot done in an hour, so feeling good! More to come tomorrow.
Day 12: A good day continuing work in the BBC sport hackathon - still some work to do, so will continue over the weekend before showing it. Today after hours was re-formating my file structure, figuring out imports / exports for the new structure, and finally creating some new SQL helper functions for my new project's database. #100DaysOfCode
Day 13: Continuing with my wine app, today starting to sort out the route handlers for the API requests. Made good progress with the try - catch error handling methods, as well as sending error responses if something goes wrong. Quality over quantity today, definitely helped my understanding, and I think I've written some solid code! (If I do say do myself).
Day 14: More route handlers. Repetition helps the learning process, so they have all been typed out manually - no copying and pasting! All route handlers are sorted now - tomorrow on to the next stage! #100DaysOfCode
Day 15: #CodeWars! Back to the basics with some fun javascript challenges. I got through two, which is decent. bring on tomorrow! #100DaysOfCode
Day 16: A lot of 404! Still on the search to figure out what went wrong, but am getting there. Watch this space! #100DaysOfCode
Day 17: Using lessons learned over the last week with my incredible SOC team to refactor my code and improve error handling! I'm using the Model, View, Controller method to keep my app organised as it grows, and using very specific error messages that point me to the error's origin point if something goes wrong - both things we utilised this week! Refactoring is important, and it is good to go back and re-write code. Lets go! #100DaysOfCode @theschoolofcode
Day 18: finalising my Wine route handlers and getting things in place. I much prefer the Model, View, Controller method, and I like splitting wroute handlers into controllers and routes - it makes things much more organised, simple and clear! I (finally) got my RESTful API CRUD functionality working for one half of my database, just need to do the other side next!
#100DaysOfCode
Day 19: Going back to basics with some CSS Garden! It was good to get a much better understanding of this integral CSS method. I managed to get through it within the hour, and have learned a lot by doing rather than reading. I will definitely check out some similar tools in the future for targeted learning! #100DaysofCode #CSS #CSSGarden
Day 20: Today is one fifth of the way through this challenge, and I feel like my understanding is coming together really well, and improving each day. Today I was (almost) finishing making the back end for my current project - just need to make the fetch requests. A nifty feature that I introduced in my error handling was making very specific error messages that pointed to the specific origin point of the error - this has greatly improved the power of my error handling, which is why I have included a photo of it today. It's not an error message, it is a clue pointing towards the solution! 🗺 #100DaysOfCode #schoolofcode
Day 21: A day of decisions. I've coded a lot of different fetch requests into my app, and maybe had grander designs than functionality would require. When coding the actual fetch requests, I decided to cut down on what the app would do - although it is possible to retrieve wines by their ID, why would a user want that? If I'm thinking like in a product manner, this is not needed at all. What would be needed - searching by colour and maybe name. Once these fetch requests are finished, it's time to start on the front end and get some HTML and CSS started .
Day 23: As we are currently learning React at School Of Code, I have decided to briefly working on the design of my project, as I will learn some useful skills very soon that will help with it. Instead, today it has been Code Wars, my fave. I got through two today, in limited time. One function to take in a string, check if any of the words were more than 5 letters, and if so reverse those words. The other was given any number of 'true's or 'false's, if the number of trues is more than 1, return false, else return true. Lessons learned today - we keep moving, learning and improving!
Day 24: A fantastic day at #SchoolOfCode learning react - I've really enjoyed it, and it has massively increased my UI experience and my designing power. I am still learning it though, and so have spent my #100DaysOfCode time today continuing to work through #CodeWars. I have worked through a fair few today, so happy with my progress, and I've even ranked up to level 6. It's going well, but plenty more to do! Keep it rolling!
Day 25: A quarter of the way through my #100DaysOfCode challenge, so a bit of a milestone today! I have learned so much today about React, and am loving it, even if it has been difficult! For my extra work today I continued working on my team's react flashcards. I managed to get some functionality in flipping the flashcards when they are pressed, and deleting flashcards when the delete button is pressed. Getting there, although still quite a lot to do on this app - incoming soon!
Day 26: incredible day today, spent really developing React understanding. I have finished the Flashcards App that we started at #SchoolOfCode, and have it deployed - for the first time I have something that I have built as an app on my phone! The feeling is fantastic, and it is the first one of many - built by Jacob, built with React!
Day 27: I am loving react so far - it makes creating the UI so much easier! Together with my great team we have built a Noughts and Crosses app. It has been a steep learning curve of a week, but I feel like things have definitely come together over the last few days. I am feeling very inspired! Give our game a go for yourself here: https://noughts-and-crosses-795s.onrender.com/
Day 28: Another great day of working on React functionality - it is a great tool and is really inspiring me to make new projects! My new (side) project is a Haiku app, built with react. I want users to be able to add new Haikus themselves which will be added to the list permanently, so watch this space if you're a Haiku fan!
Day 28: Deep Dive into React Component Testing! Today was all about testing React components, and it's been quite a ride. Practicing testing will help me in identify bugs early, boosting my code quality, and ensuring my code is reliable and has longevity. Testing is becoming a solid ally in my coding toolkit - Still more to learn, but the progress feels good!
Day 29: Immersed in the universe of OpenAI APS! 🚀 AI has always been my driving force in software development. Exploring the ins and outs of the OpenAI API has been an engaging journey. Excited to unveil my upcoming project that puts this knowledge into action! Stay tuned for more updates.
Day 30: BUGFIXING - I have had a lot of bugs to fix this evening, and have got about 95% of the way there - dotenv has been causing me major issues, and so I am currently looking for other ways to save environment variables - if you know any, please let me know! 🤣 I am excited to overcome this bug, because I have something very cool on the way.
Day 31: I've got to a point where I am happy to share my Haiku project with the world. It uses the OpenAI API to generate a haiku on the topic of the user input. ✨It then utilises the typewriter method to display it in a graceful manner. There is a bit of latency with the fetch requests, which is something that I would like to look into, and I also want to work on the way that the haiku is displayed (each line appearing on a new line for example), but I am happy with my progress so far. Built with React, it showcases what we have been working on for the last two weeks at #SchoolOfCode. The OpenAI API is a great tool to use, and is definitely something that I would like to incorporate in my projects going forward. 












